Test Name: Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) Screening
URL: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/autism-spectrum-disorder-asd-screening/
--- CONTENT ---
The results of an ASD screening may be given as a score. The score may be described as low, medium, or high risk for ASD.  If screening results do not find signs of ASD, but you have concerns, discuss them with your provider.
If the screening shows signs of ASD, it may mean that more testing is needed to confirm whether they are caused by ASD.
Children who show signs of ASD often need to see a specialist for more testing. Several types of specialists may be trained to diagnose ASD, including:
Developmental pediatricians, doctors who have training in child development and treating children with special needs
Child neurologists, doctors who specialize in diagnosing and treating conditions involving the brain, spine, and nerves
Child psychologists or psychiatrists, providers who diagnose and treat children who have mental health, behavioral and/or developmental conditions. Psychologists usually have doctoral degrees (PhDs), and psychiatrists are medical doctors (MDs).
There is no one test that can diagnose ASD. So, a specialist will use a combination of methods, including:
Detailed questionnaires and/or interviews with parents, teachers, or caregivers
Watching the child's behavior
Tests to evaluate the child's thinking, learning, and language abilities
Exams to check for other conditions that can cause behavior and/or communication problems. These exams may check:

The nervous system
Hearing
Vision


Genetic testing to look for inherited disorders that can cause ASD. If ASD runs in your family, these tests may be done to help make a diagnosis. Otherwise, they may be done after ASD is diagnosed to help guide treatment.
If your child is diagnosed with ASD, get treatment as soon as possible. ASD treatment involves a variety of services and support depending on your child's needs.
Adults who show signs of ASD may see a psychologist, psychiatrist, neuropsychologist, or other specialist with experience diagnosing ASD in adults. But it can be difficult to find a specialist with this experience. That's because adult testing to diagnose ASD is fairly new.  If you would like to find out if you have ASD, ask your primary care provider to help you find a specialist. You might also try contacting an organization in your community that supports people with ASD.
Learn more about laboratory tests, reference ranges, and understanding results.