Test Name: CD4 Lymphocyte Count
URL: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/cd4-lymphocyte-count/
--- CONTENT ---
CD4 results are usually given as a number of cells per cubic millimeter of blood. But labs may have different ways of describing "normal" CD4 counts. What's normal for you depends on your age, other health conditions, and the medicines you may take. That's why it's important to talk with your provider about what your test results mean.
CD4 counts may change even when your health has not changed. So, your provider will usually look at a few test results over time to see if there's a trend in your CD4 counts.
If you're diagnosed with HIV, it's important to start treatment as soon as possible. If your CD4 count continues to decrease for many months, your provider may change your medicine and also may start preventive treatment for opportunistic infections. The goal of this is to increase or stabilize your CD4 count.
In general, ranges for CD4 counts are:
Normal CD4 count for healthy adults and teens: 500 to 1,200 cells per cubic millimeter
Low CD4 count: Below 500 cells per cubic millimeter

If you have HIV, a low CD4 count means that HIV has weakened your immune system. A CD4 count of 200 or fewer cells per cubic millimeter means that you have AIDS. With AIDS you have a high risk of developing life-threatening infections or cancers.
If you don't have HIV, a low CD4 count may be caused by an infection. Cancer chemotherapy and medicines that weaken your immune system may also cause low CD4 counts. In certain cases, the cause of a low CD4 count is unknown, but this is uncommon.


High CD4 Count: Counts above the normal range may be a sign of an infection or a blood cancer.
While there is no cure for HIV, there are different medicines that you can take to control the virus and protect your immune system. In fact, CD4 counts usually increase with these medicines, which helps keep you healthy. If you are living with HIV, it's important to take your medicine as prescribed and get regular blood tests, including CD4 counts.
Learn more about laboratory tests, reference ranges, and understanding results.