Test Name: Creatine Kinase
URL: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/creatine-kinase/
--- CONTENT ---
Normal CK levels for you will depend on:
Your age, sex, and race
How much muscle you have
How physically active you are
If your CK level is higher than normal, it usually means you have some type of muscle damage. CK levels may not reach their highest until up to two days after certain injuries. So, you may have more than one CK test to see if your levels go up or down. CK levels that stay high or increase may mean that muscle damage is continuing to happen.
But a CK test result can't show where the damage is or what's causing it. Your provider will consider your symptoms and medical history to understand what your test results mean.
If the source of high or increasing CK levels isn't clear, you may need a more specific type of CK test to find out if the CK is coming from your muscles, heart, or brain. This more specific test is called a CK isoenzymes test.
A CK isoenzymes test measures three different types of CK:
High levels of CK-MM enzymes are most likely from damage to your skeletal muscles. The damage may be from disease, sudden injury, certain medicines, or recent intense exercise.
High levels of CK-MB enzymes are most likely from damage to your heart muscle. The damage is often caused by heart attack or inflammation in your heart muscle (myocarditis). But other conditions can also cause high levels of CK-MB, such as:

A blood clot in the lung
Heart surgery
Congestive heart failure
Hypothyroidism
Kidney failure


Higher than normal CK-BB enzymes may mean you had a stroke or brain injury. But conditions that affect smooth muscles can also increase CK-BB levels. Smooth muscles are muscles you can't control, for example, the muscles in your digestive system.
To diagnose the condition causing high CK levels, you may need other types of tests, too. The tests you have will depend on which types of CK enzymes are high as well as your symptoms and medical history.
If you have questions about any of your test results or diagnosis, talk with your provider.
Learn more about laboratory tests, reference ranges, and understanding results.