Test Name: Measuring Blood Pressure
URL: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/measuring-blood-pressure/
--- CONTENT ---
Your results, also known as a blood pressure reading, will contain two numbers. The top or first number is the systolic pressure. The bottom or second number is the diastolic pressure. Blood pressure readings are also labeled by categories, ranging from normal to crisis. Blood pressure is measured in millimeters of mercury (mm Hg).
Your reading may show your blood pressure is:
Blood Pressure Category
Systolic Blood Pressure



Diastolic Blood Pressure

Normal
Less than 120
and
Less than 80
Elevated
120 - 129
and
Less than 80
High Blood Pressure Stage 1
130 - 139
or
80 - 89
High Blood Pressure Stage 2
140 or higher
or
90 or higher
Hypertensive Crisis (dangerously high blood pressure - seek medical care right away
Higher than 180
and
Higher than 120

Your blood pressure measurement can go up and down. Your provider will only usually diagnose you with high blood pressure if you have two or more high blood pressure readings on different days. They may also consider your blood pressure readings over a period of time, your medical and family history, and if you have other symptoms before diagnosing you with high blood pressure.
If your child is younger than 13, your provider will compare their blood pressure readings with what is common for children the same age, sex, and height.
If you've been diagnosed with high blood pressure, your provider may recommend:
Lifestyle changes and/or medicines to control your blood pressure.
You to regularly check your blood pressure at home with an automated blood pressure monitor. An at-home blood pressure monitor usually includes a blood pressure cuff and a digital device to record and display blood pressure readings.
At-home blood pressure monitoring is not a replacement for regular visits with your provider. But it can provide important information, such as whether your treatment is working or if your condition may have gotten worse.
Also, home monitoring may make the test less stressful. Many people get nervous about getting their blood pressure taken at a provider's office. This is called "white coat syndrome." It can cause a temporary rise in blood pressure, making the results less accurate.
To get the most accurate results when taking your blood pressure at home:
Make sure the blood pressure cuff fits snugly but isn't too small.
Use a blood pressure cuff that goes around your upper arm. It is more accurate than the ones that measure on your wrist or finger.
Take your blood pressure at the same time of day each time.
Rest in the chair for about five minutes before taking your blood pressure.
Sit up straight with your legs uncrossed and your feet flat on the floor.
Seek immediate medical attention or call 911 if your blood pressure is over 180/120 mmHg, you have chest pain, shortness of breath, back pain, numbness or weakness, trouble speaking, or vision changes.
For more information about home monitoring of blood pressure, talk to your provider.
If you were tested for low blood pressure, a blood pressure reading of 90 systolic, 60 diastolic (90/60 mmHg) or lower is considered abnormal. Treatments for low blood pressure may include medicines and certain dietary changes.
Seek immediate medical attention or call 911 if you have symptoms of extremely low blood pressure, such as confusion, a weak and rapid pulse, or cold skin.