Test Name: Pap Smear
URL: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/pap-smear/
--- CONTENT ---
A Pap smear test could have the following results:
Normal or "negative" result, which usually means that no abnormal changes were found in your cervix cells. Your provider may tell you that you can wait three years for your next test. If you also had a normal HPV test result, you may be able to wait five years for your next test, depending on your age and medical history.
Unsatisfactory results, which may mean that the lab sample did not have enough cells, or the cells may have been clumped together or hidden by mucus. Your provider may ask you to come in for another test in a few months.
Unclear results, which may mean that your cells look abnormal, but it's unclear if it's due to HPV. Unclear results could also be related to pregnancy, menopause, or an infection. An HPV test may help to find out if unclear results are due to HPV. Your provider will let you know if other tests need to be done.
Abnormal or "positive" result, which usually means that abnormal changes were found in your cervical cells. Most of the time, abnormal results do not mean you have cervical cancer. Minor changes in the cells usually go back to normal on their own. But your provider may recommend a follow-up test to check. More serious cell changes may turn into cancer if they are not removed. Finding and treating these cells early can help prevent cancer from developing.
A Pap smear doesn't diagnose cancer. It's also possible to receive a false-positive result, in which your results appear abnormal, but there are no precancerous or cancerous cells. Or you could have a false-negative, which happens when your results appear normal but there are precancer or cancerous cells.
Talk with your provider to learn what your Pap smear results mean. If they are concerned about your results, they may perform a colposcopy. This is an exam that uses a special magnifying instrument to look closely at your cervix to help diagnose or rule out cervical cancer.
Learn more about laboratory tests, reference ranges, and understanding results.