Test Name: Reticulocyte Count
URL: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/reticulocyte-count/
--- CONTENT ---
To understand the results of a reticulocyte count test, your provider will consider your symptoms, medical history, and the results of other blood tests.
If your results show a higher-than-normal reticulocyte count (reticulocytosis), it may mean:
You have hemolytic anemia, a type of anemia in which red blood cells are destroyed faster than the bone marrow can replace them.
You have had new or ongoing bleeding (hemorrhage), and your body is making many more red blood cells to replace what you've lost.
Your baby has hemolytic disease of the newborn (HDN), a condition that limits the ability of a baby's blood to carry oxygen to organs and tissues.
If your results show a lower-than-normal reticulocyte count, it may mean you have:
Iron deficiency anemia, the most common type of anemia. It happens when you don't have enough iron in your body.
Pernicious anemia, a type of megaloblastic anemia which can happen when your body is not getting enough of certain B vitamins (B12 and folate) in your diet or when your body can't absorb enough B vitamins.
Aplastic anemia, an uncommon type of anemia, happens when the bone marrow isn't able to make enough blood cells.
Bone marrow failure, which may be caused by an infection or cancer.
Kidney disease.
Cirrhosis, or scarring of the liver.
If your reticulocyte test results were not normal, it doesn't always mean you have anemia or another health condition. For example, your reticulocyte count may not be normal because:
Your reticulocyte counts may be higher during pregnancy.
You may have an increase in your count for a short time if you move to a place with a high altitude. The count should return to normal once your body gets used to the lower oxygen levels that happen in higher altitudes.
Some medicines may increase or decrease your reticulocyte count.
If you have questions about your results or your child's results, talk to your health care provider.
Learn more about laboratory tests, reference ranges, and understanding results.