Test Name: Semen Analysis
URL: https://medlineplus.gov/lab-tests/semen-analysis/
--- CONTENT ---
Results to check fertility:
Your semen analysis will include the measurements listed above. It will also often include the normal ranges for these measurements:
Volume: 1.5 to 7.6 milliliters. Anything lower than 1.5 milliliters may cause infertility.
Sperm count: More than 39 million sperm in the entire sample. A count lower than this may make it difficult to get your partner pregnant.
Sperm concentration: 15 to 259 million sperm per milliliter of semen. Anything lower than 15 million may make it difficult to get your partner pregnant.
Sperm movement (motility): Over 40%. If less than 40% of your sperm are able to move efficiently, the odds of one reaching and fertilizing the egg may be lower.
Sperm shape (morphology): Over 4% of your sperm should have a normal shape. Sperm with abnormal shapes may not be able to fertilize an egg.
pH: 7.2 to 8.0 pH. A pH outside of this range can kill sperm or affect their ability to move.
Time to liquefaction: 15 to 30 minutes after collection. Your results may give a timeframe, or they may say normal.
White blood cells (leukocytes): Less than 1 million white blood cells per 1 milliliter of semen. More than this may be a sign that an infection is affecting your fertility.
If your semen analysis results aren't all normal, it doesn't mean you're permanently infertile. But it does show that your sperm may be part of the reason you and your partner are having difficulties getting pregnant.
Your provider may order more tests, such as ultrasounds and blood tests, to help find the cause of the problem so it can be treated. There are many possible causes, including:
Certain habits you may be able to change, such as smoking.
A physical problem in your testicles, such as an enlarged vein (varicocele).
Certain genetic disorders or other health conditions, including hormone disorders, diabetes, and cystic fibrosis.
Treatments for infertility depend on the cause. To help improve your chances of getting your partner pregnant, your provider may refer you to a provider who specializes in infertility.
Results for semen analysis to check a vasectomy:
The results of your semen analysis will tell you if there's any sperm in your semen. It's not unusual to find sperm in several ejaculations after a successful vasectomy.
If sperm is found, you'll need repeat testing until your sample has no sperm. In the meantime, you and your partner will have to use other birth control to prevent pregnancy.
If no sperm is found, you and your partner should be able to stop using other forms of birth control.
Learn more about laboratory tests, reference ranges, and understanding results.